---
grand_parent: Basic Robotics
parent: INTRODUCTION TO C++
title: Flow Control
nav_order: 4
---

 Flow control
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Flow control in C++ programming is the mechanism that allows the execution path of a program to change based on conditions, loops, or jumps. It is fundamental to creating dynamic and responsive programs. The primary ways to control flow in C++ include:

- **Jump Statements**: Facilitate the control flow by jumping to other parts of the program. The break, continue, and goto statements are examples of jump statements.
- **Loop Statements**: Enable executing a block of code repeatedly as long as a condition remains true. C++ offers for, while, and do-while loops for this purpose.
- **Conditional Statements**: Direct the program flow based on boolean conditions. Examples include if, if-else, and switch statements.

The `goto` statement in C++ provides a way to jump to another part of the program, altering the normal sequential flow of execution. It's generally recommended to use goto sparingly, as it can make code harder to read and maintain, but it can be useful in certain contexts, such as breaking out of deeply nested loops.

### Tasks:

1. Mark the moving instructions with the label `repeating_moves:`.
2. At the end of the moves put the `goto` statement and jump to repeating_moves label.

```cpp
#include "RobotMovingFunctions.h"

void setup()
{
  setIOpins();

repeating_moves:
  moveForeward();
  delay(1000);
  moveLeft();
  delay(550);
  robotStop();
  delay(1000);
goto repeating_moves;

}

void loop()
{

}
```
: Flow control with goto statement. {#lst:054_Flow_Control}

### Questions:

1. Why is using goto statement not the best programming practice.
2. Which form two is programming instruction: a) repeating_moves or b) goto repeating_moves, and `;` is needed?

### Summary:

The goto statement in C++ programming is a control flow instruction that allows the program to jump to another point in the code. It is used to transfer control to a labeled statement within the same function. Despite its capability to alter the execution flow in a very straightforward manner, goto is often discouraged in modern programming practices due to several reasons:

- **Readability**: Frequent use of goto can make code difficult to read and understand. It breaks the structured programming paradigm, making the flow of execution non-linear and less predictable.
- **Maintainability**: Programs that rely on goto statements can be harder to maintain and debug. The non-linear flow can introduce bugs that are difficult to trace and fix.
- **Alternative Constructs**: C++ provides structured control flow constructs such as loops (for, while, do-while) and conditionals (if, else if, else, switch) that can handle nearly all the use cases for goto in a cleaner, more structured way.

However, there are specific situations where goto might be considered useful or necessary, such as:

- **Breaking out of nested loops**: When a break is needed from deeply nested loops, a goto statement can provide a straightforward solution without having to refactor large portions of code.
- **Error handling**: In some low-level programming scenarios, especially in system-level programming, goto can be used for cleanup tasks and to jump to error handling routines.

Despite these use cases, it's important to approach goto with caution. Its use should be limited to scenarios where the benefits outweigh the potential drawbacks in terms of code clarity and maintainability. Modern C++ programming encourages structured programming practices, with goto largely being considered a relic of earlier programming styles.

### Issues:

#### *<++>*

<++>

